TypeScript (#1819)
enkidevs/curriculum: typescript/introduction/tsc-variable-declaration/tsc-var.md

---
author: kapnobatai136

type: normal

category: must-know

aspects:
  - introduction

---

> # Declaring Variables

Reviewer: similarily, I think this is more of a generic JS insight than a TS one - maybe we can mention the `var/let` difference in one insight instead presenting all their technical differences?

---
## Content

Traditionally, declaring a variable in JavaScript was done using the `var` keyword. 

Since TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript, it also supports `var`:

```ts
var some: string = 'thing';
```

However, using `var` can create some issues because of unintuitive scoping[1].

Variables declared with `var` are always in the function scope, even if they are defined within a block.

```ts
if (x == 5) {
  var enki = true;
}
// enki is accessible here
// even though it was defined
// inside the if statement
console.log(enki); // true
```

> Another potentially confusing behavior of `var` is that **it is not an error** to re-declare the same variable multiple times, as long as we keep the same type.

Reviewer 2: For consistency with the rest of the content:

```suggestion
Another potentially confusing behavior of `var` is that **it is not an error** to redeclare the same variable multiple times, as long as we keep the same type.
```

```ts
var a = 'enki';
var a = 'foobar';
console.log(a); // 'foobar'
```

> The reason this leads to problems is because different parts of the codebase can change same variables without it being obvious. If you only saw `var a = 'foobar'` somewhere in code, you wouldn't know that it was also changing an axisting `a`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reason this leads to problems is because different parts of the codebase can change the same variable without it being obvious. If you only saw `var a = 'foobar'` somewhere in the code, you wouldn't know that it was also changing an existing `a`.
```

Next we'll showcase safer modern approaches to declaring variables using the keywords `let` and `const`.

---
## Footnotes

[1:Scoping]
Scope is just a fancy word to mean which variables are accessible from which parts of the code. There are two types of scope: *function* scope and *block* scope. The global scope is a special kind of function scope.

> Any code within a function is within a function scope. Any code between `{}`, for example in a loop or an `if` statement, is in a block scope.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any code within a function is within a function scope. Any code between `{}`, for example in a loop or an `if` statement, is in a block scope. A function scope is a special kind of block scope.
```
